Desktop PC in [[sommelsdijk]] with Ubuntu Gutsy Gibbon 7.10.

Users:

* Janny, sudoer
* Aat
* Derk
* (Lennert)
* (Rosanne)
* (Martijn, sudoer)


# Hardware

* 19" Iiyama Vison Master Pro CRT
* AMD Duron 750 MHz
* 640 MB RAM
* Matrox G450 AGP
* 160 GB Maxtor 6G160P0 ATA
* PLEXTOR PX-W5224A ATAPI CD/DVD-ROM
* Brother HL-1430 Laser Printer (USB connected)


# System configuration

## Partitioning

One 160 GB harddisk on /dev/hda:

    /dev/hda1 mounted as /boot (220 MB)
    /dev/hda2 LVM volume group (rest of 160 GB)

The LVM volume group contains LVM volumes:

    /dev/mapper/lvm--group-lvm--root    mounted as / (8 GB)
    /dev/mapper/lvm--group-lvm--home    mounted as /home (118 GB)
    /dev/mapper/lvm--group-lvm--backup  mounted as /vermaat (23 GB)
    /dev/mapper/lvm--group-lvm--swap    (800 MB)

## Sound

Install 'aumix' to adjust the volume of the sound chip.

## Printer

While te printer generally works, there have always been troubles with the USB connection. See this bug: [Brother HL-1430 USB printer will only print once](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/dapper/+source/cupsys/+bug/57050). The fixes in this bug report also seem to work for now. Some other notes on USB printers which lose the connection are in [this report](http://uwstopia.nl/blog/2007/11/getting-my-samsung-ml-2010-printer-to-work), but I never used them.

# User configuration

## Shared data

The /vermaat partition is shared by adding all users to the 'vermaat'
group. We make sure everything in /vermaat is owned by 'vermaat' and
readable and writable for all group members.

[This](http://svn.vermaat.name/conf/home/melissa/bin/shared-permissions) script is executed by root every few hours.

The shared F-Spot database and photos are also stored on this partition
and used as described on [[f-spot]].


# Backups

TODO